Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm here with Neil Tuari of
Magnetar Capital. This is a $22 billion
alternative asset manager at the center
of the AI compute buildout. We talk
about the financial innovation
depreciation of GPUs and what's next in
AI compute. Welcome. Thanks so much for
doing this, Neil.
>> Absolutely. You know, really happy to be
here. So you are leading AI
infrastructure at Magnetar. You're at
the center of the buildout, enabling it,
financing it. For any of our listeners
who haven't heard, can you just explain
a little bit what Magnetar is?
>> Sure. Um, so Magnetar has been around
for actually this is our our 20th year.
Uh, we're an alternative asset manager
and that can mean a lot of different
things. Um, but we have three primary
strategies. The first one is private
credit. uh the second one is a venture
strategy and the third is more of a
systematic or quantitative focused uh
public strategy as well. And so I think
you know when when people look at us and
and you know why are we here in this
moment especially on building out AI
infrastructure um I think a lot of it
has to do with kind of our unique lens
on helping to build uh capital intensive
businesses and using creative financing
whether it's venture or other structures
with unique elements and I think we're
going to talk a lot about that but um to
build out uh and optimize the balance
sheets for these capital intensive
businesses. So, I remember hearing about
you guys originally. So, you're the
first investor I think we've ever had on
the podcast. I'm excited about that.
Thank you.
>> Uh I remember hearing about you and
Magnetar initially around I was like
who's this big owner of Corewave and
also um you know helping OpenAI with
some of their early buildouts. When did
you guys first start looking at the
problem and thinking about how to how to
solve it?
>> Yeah, so we actually you know stumbled
across the the compute problem before it
was compute. Um, you know, we met uh
Coreweave back in uh 2021 and that was
when they were actually transitioning
from uh mining Ethereum into uh high
performance compute and at that time it
was using the GPU as a you know an
instrument to mine uh cryptocurrencies
and interestingly that same instrument
could be used for high performance
computing applications. Uh and the first
one was uh visual effects uh which so
think of like things like movies, Marvel
movies and things like that. And so they
were transitioning um at that point
between crypto mining into the first
kind of uh high performance compute use
case. And this is all before AI
>> and so we made our first investment
before the AI trade started. Um but we
added a lot of optionality where you
know we could envision a world where uh
the GPU could be used for a lot of
different high performance kind of
computing applications. I think um you
know AI was on the radar, machine
learning was on the radar for us. Um but
I wouldn't say that we could foresee
everything that happened. we just
happened to be, you know, at the right
place at the right time and we continued
to double down um as the company
progressed and started, you know,
shifting into more workloads that were
machine learning and and kind of AI
training based.
>> Did you have like an existing
significant data center investing
footprint?
>> No, I mean I think you know uh
interestingly at Magnetar there, you
know, we have invested across asset
classes. Um so we we've done a lot of
property investing, real estate
investing as an example. um investing in
energy. We had an energy business
historically and so a lot of the
elements for you know what constitutes a
data center power energy land uh real
estate you know we had a lot of the the
background in those spaces I think we
were new to compute right like that was
a new sector for us and so kind of those
two worlds merging um you know we we
obviously you know came up on the curve
on the compute side but we had a lot of
you know background on um the the
elements that constitute what it means
to build a cloud. So you guys just
really you were in this company, you saw
the demand and you said like it's going
to grow and we're going to make this a
big part of our business.
>> Exactly. I think you know what was
interesting is we made our first
investment in 2021 um and then about a
year later we continued to see expansion
of use cases uh for at that time it was
called high performance compute and then
it was kind of towards the end of 22 the
whole AI uh discussion started and as we
entered 2023
uh coreweave uh started to train models
for open AI
>> um and that's when things really started
growing because the sheer amount of
compute that was needed to train an LLM
this was like the first time had ever
been done. And what was interesting was
what kind of allowed them to take
advantage of that opportunity was the
historical kind of backgrounds of a lot
of the founders uh were in energy asset
management. And when you fast forward to
today and you look and like what is what
constitutes your ability to build a GPU
cloud, it's your ability to manage these
highly complex assets. And it
fundamentally comes down to access to
power and energy. And so they had these
elements with them. They obviously
brought on a lot of talent on the cloud
side. And to put all these together and
at that moment it allowed them to um you
know build very large scale reliable um
clusters for OpenAI and obviously many
other customers since then. And I think
the last comment I'll make is what
really allowed them to kind of win this
market early on was focus on two things.
It was scale and reliability. And I
think those were the two things that um
are really difficult or a lot of the new
entrance since then because scale has to
do with your access to capital, your
access to energy, power, data center and
then reliability really had to do with
their their ability to manage a giant
fleet of GPUs uh which is actually quite
complicated. um you know whether it's
reliability from you know GPU failures
or software challenges you know building
a fleet that can healthfully be online
all the time at you know 99.9%
reliability is incredibly difficult and
that's something that they had started
back in 2017 2018 time frame and and
they were at the right moment at the
right place with the right technology
stack um to really build um the optimal
cloud for that moment
>> I've definitely experienced that with
you know our portfolio of companies that
are building large training clusters uh
uh it corewave has a reputation for
reliability that not everyone has
reached. Can you just help characterize
if you fast forward like two and a half
three years now like what is the scale
of the problem today?
>> Yeah. So if you look at um kind of capex
right let's starting with that. So capex
for AI compute and infrastructure in
2026, you know, at least from the
hyperscalers is projected to be between
660 and 690 uh billion dollars. And over
the next several years um you know that
scales to trillions of dollars, right?
And so the the scale of the problem is
how do you build um you know that size
of capex efficiently? And I think a lot
of that has to do with not only, you
know, your ability to have access to,
you know, those core elements, um,
energy, power, you know, uh, and and
your ability to have data center space,
etc. But I think one of the things
that's not talked about as much is
capital and access to capital and how is
capital structured. Um, and what I mean
by that is this is, you know, billions
to trillions of dollars of capex
>> and just using equity dollars alone is
not an efficient way to scale this.
That's obviously massive dilution. You
know, there's there's it's not an easy
problem to solve.
>> When we first met, I had like slowly
come to this realization. I was like, I
don't think we should take the dilution
for the cluster.
>> Yeah. Right. Exactly. And so that's
where I think, you know, when you and I
have talked about like structuring and
and I can give a couple examples um if
that's helpful. I think the first one
was DDTL structures or SPV debt
structures that um had a think of it as
like an SPV. Inside of the SPV are the
cap is the capex, the collateral um
which is the GPUs
>> and the contracts themselves. Um and so
in this example, the actual asset or
collateral was not really just the GPUs
themselves. It was really the contracted
cash flows
>> from in this case investment grade
counterparties and so I think the reason
>> this is the consumer of the
>> the consumer of the exactly you know
your Microsofts your your metas etc of
the world
>> and I think the reason um that was done
is is really twofold when when you look
at the scale of the problem uh you know
those particular contracts uh needed
billions of dollars of debt to finance
the capex you know obviously for a nason
and new growing company that's that's
really hard to raise. Um so part of
structuring it this way is ensuring that
you have kind of guaranteed offtake on
the back end to uh minimize the risk for
you know debt holders and I think that's
a lot of what the market got wrong um
especially when there was a lot of press
about this early on where it was
>> there's billions of debt on these highly
depreciating assets and it's extremely
speculative and the what was oftentimes
characterized in the media was uh these
debt structures had GPUs as collateral
and that's like putting a used car as
collateral which is obviously just going
to depreciate incredibly fast. You know
that's a very risky kind of structure
and I think what got missed was the the
GPUs themselves were actually like the
second second or tertiary level of
collateral in those instruments. The
primary collateral uh was the contracted
cash flows from investment grade
counterparties.
Microsoft or Nvidia or somebody like
that saying, "I'm committed to pay you.
I know you can pay me."
>> Take or pay contracts and they're like 5
years in length. So, I think that was
like one feature
>> uh that that's unique to talk about. And
then the second one really has to do
with um the debt itself and how it
amortizes. And so, like in simple terms,
you know, when you have debt, you have
principal and interest and you have to
pay it off over time. And in these
structures typically the payback period
on the capex was roughly 2 to 3 years.
Um and the uh structures themselves the
debt was over five years you know four
to five years in length where the entire
debt amortized during the um outstanding
period that the that the debt was out.
And so at the end you ended up with zero
balance uh for the debt and there was no
balloon payment or or anything that was
really due on the back end. And so the
question that often you know comes up uh
is you know isn't that a very risky uh
type of structure because these things
are depreciating incredibly quickly. So
I think know there's there's two
comments here. first is on that
depreciation question. In these kind of
debt structures, it doesn't really
matter because the debt's fully paid off
by the end of the debt term against
committed contractual um you know
contracts from investment grade
counterparties. Um and then at the very
end the the actual upside or residual
value and I know there's a lot of
questions on on residual value is is
held by um you know the uh the cloud
player in this example right Courte
right or or you know any others
>> um and that's a really interesting
prospect because you can see a world
where all of this capex is paid off
incredibly quickly and there's an
opportunity to redeploy it um where you
can redeploy it um without having to pay
for any additional uh debt obviously
against that redeployment.
>> How have the instruments changed?
>> They've changed in several ways where uh
you know the first is you when you look
at these SPVS I think you're starting to
see ways to change the portfolio
construction of who can go inside of one
of these debt structures. And so, you
know, early on in the early days, these
were all only investment grade
counterparties
>> because there was the the space was so
nent, the operators had no experience.
And I think now what you're starting to
see is a blend of investment grade and
non-investment grade. So, like what does
that actually mean? What that means is,
you know, you're you're seeing these
structures with investment grade
counterparties like your hyperscalers
and your other corporates that that are
IG um mixed alongside uh some of the AI
native companies. And so think of the AI
model companies, the labs, software
companies that are building AI startups.
You're seeing those companies get mixed
in alongside um the IG companies to
build a portfolio because now you have,
you know, the the history that you can
do this and now you have structures
where you can kind of balance the risk
uh wi with IG and nonIG. And we're
continuing to see that kind of move to
be able to help finance, you know,
really the model companies and a lot of
these startups. Obviously, that was
difficult to do, you know, three or four
years ago. starting to become easier um
as these companies have more runtime and
ability to uh you know make the compute
fungeible.
>> All are uh portfolio companies that buy
compute tell me it's a supply constraint
market today. One is that true and two
when you think about like uh continuing
to grow your business or grow this
ecosystem like what's going to stop it
like what could slow down a buildout?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I think what's
interesting is uh if you look at like
2023 2024 we were very supply
constrained and the supply constraint
was chips and no one could get access to
chips.
>> Yes, we bought chips.
>> We bought chips, right?
>> And you know there was this thought that
okay there's going to be an overbuild of
chips and then the supply constraints
will go away. Well, you know, fast
forward to 2026 and what we see is, you
know, there is obviously more
availability of chips, but to build and
operate these uh, you know, data centers
requires people, power, infrastructure,
a lot of these things that uh have a lot
of of bottlenecks. And so, actually
taking these chips and then making them
into useful revenue generating assets is
really the bottleneck. It's also not
clear that there is supply of chips at
the latest generation at scale.
>> That's true.
>> Soon, which is how everybody wants them.
>> Exactly. I think, you know, you see um
not only you're starting to see
interesting and not only just the the
high-end players want access to the
latest chips. You're seeing the latest,
you know, obviously startups want access
to those. And I think it has to do with
efficiency. Mhm.
>> Um, you know, one of our friends or one
of your friends as well, Dylan Patel
over at Semi analysis, posted this
interesting article last week on
inference and inference spend an
inference kind of performance. Um,
>> and you know, there's a lot of, you
know, jokes made about Jensen math. Um,
and it was interesting because the
>> seems pretty good at math.
>> He's actually great at math. Um, and so
for the uh hoppers, the H100 or H200
series of GPUs into the black wells, uh,
there was a claim made that it could be
30 times more efficient. And I think the
data from, you know, some analysis
showed that it was 90 to 100 times more
efficient in terms of inference
performance.
>> And so I think part of the the need to
go to these new chips is not is yes,
more computing power, but it's actually
the it can be cheaper to operate more
performance. Price performance. Exactly.
>> Mhm. Yes. My favorite Jensenism is the
more you buy, the more you save.
>> Exactly. It's actually true.
>> Yeah. Um crazy. Um help me address like
this uh criticism around circular
financing.
>> Yeah, I know. Um it's obviously a topic
dour and I think you know the way we see
it and frame it really has to do with
the demand signals um and who are the
eventual buyers and and how is this
being used? And so at least from what
our perspective, we we continue to see
uh insatiable demand. Um and if you go
back to, you know, the previous kind of
big tech buildout back in the early
2000s, there was obviously a lot of
fiber that was being built and you had
dark fiber, you know, in in an overbuild
happening. And I think what you see here
is I I have, you know, you don't see any
dark GPUs, any GPU. Exactly. Any GPUs
used. Yeah.
>> Um and then number two, you're starting
to see uh actual economic value. Um so I
think last year enterprise AI had about
37 billion of total TAM. Um and it's
continued to grow like crazy and at
least personally and and I'm sure you
see this too, but I use these tools all
the all the time and I find incredibly
valuable, right? The actual tokconomics
of positive uh ROI is is actually here
now I think from our perspective. Um and
so that the circularity you know comment
I think applies when you're building um
you know speculative uh compute and
capacity uh or if you're you know purely
doing vendor financing and it's you know
you're trying to do some type of you
know unique some type of you know
revreck type item related to that and
that that's not what we see like what we
see is financing to support to build out
the demand against uh use cases that are
very positive in their ROI and so like
our perspective is that that's uh you
know not a real real concern that we
have um and and it really has to do with
who are the ultimate buyers here.
ultimate buyers have been and at scale
the hyperscalers they're deploying this
uh at scale and the economics are
positive uh when you look at a unit
economic basis in terms of uh deploying
intelligence um and I think we're at a
moment in time where you we're really
starting to see that
>> in my own experience um I have been a
heavy AI user for several years
>> but reasoning advances the ability to
scale up inference especially around
code
>> means I'm up against my max limit all
the time in a way That was not true uh
uh uh initially. How does the inference
workloads actually growing? I mean it's
a it's a good demand signal that there
is value but how does that change your
business?
>> Yeah. So I think one thing that's
interesting that we're seeing is
obviously there's been the shift from
training to inference you know over the
last few years that that split continues
to grow on the inference side as usable
uh and ROI positive applications get
developed. I think the two things I see
on the inference side now is um
inference has is a lot more complex than
I think initially thought and what I
mean by that is it's not as simple as um
you you train a model and then you it's
easy to inference it in some certain
cases you can do that on similar
infrastructure but there are issues
around latency um fungeibility of that
uh and and really optimizing the cost of
your compute on the inference side um
how do you manage uh you know peaks of
inference demand and and obviously it's
not linear like training you your GPUs
are on all the time you know 100% of the
time and so with inference you have a
lot more variability
>> um and so there's a lot more nuances uh
in in optimizing inference I think the
second thing that's observed um that
I've seen is uh inference is definitely
a memory problem a memory throughput
problem um you know on the inference
side you know you have these kind of
phases called prefill and and decode,
right? And how you optimize that across
a fleet of GPUs is actually unique
technical problem.
>> Um, and then the third is what I would
say is distribution.
>> Um, you know, a lot of times training
infrastructure is is quite centralized.
What you're seeing with inference is in
many use cases as this becomes more
ubiquitous, you're going to have more
and more decentralized
uh, inference clusters. And actually one
of my favorite companies is one of your
companies, B 10, which is really, you
know, optimizing distributed inference
at scale. And I think one thing that's
interesting when you look at companies
like that and and other inference clouds
is how do you optimize the uh compute
and and build out these clusters that
could actually look very different than
a training cluster where training
cluster might be 50, 100, 150 megawws in
one kind of four walls. Mhm.
>> I think you're starting to see
distributed inference which could be,
you know, four or five megawatts and
five separate data centers and stitching
them together in different areas, right?
And that looks very different from a
kind of power perspective, how you, you
know, the software matters a lot more
when you're doing like distributed
inference. And then in terms of your
question how it impacts us I think one
of the things that we've been you know
focused on is um you know where we
started this conversation with you on um
financing compute that was really
obviously uh it started with mostly
training um a lot of those hyperscalers
are now doing a lot of inference on that
same infrastructure but these are
investment grade counterparties you know
it's easy to it's easier to lend uh
money to build out these clusters to
those customers I think now that you
have this new crop of inference clouds
and application layer companies that are
needing tons of inference. I think the
the key question that we're really
focused on is how can we finance the
next build which is distributed
inference. Um and maybe the last you
know one or two takeaways would be uh
one thing I'm seeing is you know for
every application layer company out
there the highest line item from cogs is
compute
>> um and then the inference companies and
inference clouds out there most of them
are um purchasing up compute from either
other clouds or unused act uh capacity
and when you look at like margins for
that you've got like layered margins
>> and so there's a push to kind of own
your own infrastructure
>> um to really drive and increase you know
uh profit margins but also it's the
ability to kind of have control of your
own destiny and I think a lot of folks
are starting to the application layer
companies and inference clouds are
grappling with how can we build and own
and operate our own infrastructure um
and that's something I'm I'm really
looking into
>> I am too and I think one of the things
that uh is going to make a big
difference in this ecosystem is like can
the inference clouds like base And can
they deliver reliability that you would
expect from a a cloud like a traditional
cloud?
>> Um because the like uh distributed data
center operations that you know they
consume today do not offer that
reliability. Right.
>> And the other thing that's interesting
is um you know this is additional
reporting from last week. Um if you're
familiar with silicon data they they put
together a lot of you know data on spot
pricing and price per token performance.
This is Kerman Lee's company. And one
thing that that I think was really
interesting in some some in an article
she uh published last week uh had to do
with how two pieces of compute that look
identical on paper have wildly different
performances. Everything from
reliability to cost to speed. And I
think as you distribute um you know have
distributed inference, how do you m um
you know mash together very different
types of compute and try to optimize for
reliability I think is super
interesting. Um and that gets to kind of
one thing I I find really interesting
that Nvidia is doing is is this concept
of AI factories
>> and building AI factories um you know
behind corporates and AI companies. And
maybe the way I unpack that is you've
got kind of more large monolithic cloud
players, the hyperscalers and the
neoclouds that are building large scale
um you know cloud environments. uh and a
lot of where I think Nvidia and others
see this going is yes those are going to
be important components and those are
going to be huge markets but corporates
fortune you know 500 AI companies that
use a ton of compute will want dedicated
AI factories associated with workloads
that they run and that they have control
over. And so I think you're starting to
see, you know, the early indications of
how do you finance and build out uh
almost think of like literally AI
factories that sit on prem with a
company that can operate their
workloads.
>> Uh
>> you're talking about my Mac mini farm.
>> Exactly.
No, but but all joking aside, I I think
one thing that is another supporting
factor for use of all of the compute we
have is and and can create over the
coming years is um power is clearly the
limiting factor.
>> Um it's easier to get more power in
smaller
>> units. Yeah,
>> I think that as inference demand is
growing these uh anyone who has uh
usable compute for inference is going to
find a lot of partners for offtake.
>> Exactly.
>> Okay, let's look at the future a little
bit while we while we have 10 minutes.
Um uh let's talk about the the macro.
Like people talk about energy, they talk
about um natural gas, uh the grid, the
slowness of nuclear. like what do you
think about over the next 6 or 12
months?
>> Over the last year, I've been spending a
ton of time in the power and energy
markets um and looking at interesting
solutions that can help scale power, you
know, for the gap that we see. I think a
few observations that we've seen. The
first is um we do have a power problem,
but I think it's a bit more nuanced than
than a lot of the reporting out there
where
>> it just we can't generate.
>> We can't generate. Yeah. I think there's
actually quite a bit of stranded power
across the grid across the country. And
what I mean by that is, you know, a lot
of the utilities are built in a way
where they're focused on peak power,
right? So they've got natural gas
peakers and they're focused on, you
know, providing peak power for those
moments where demand is is kind of off
the charts. Um, and that's obviously
only for a few days out of the year. So
there's lots of generating assets out
there. Uh, the question is they're a bit
stranded, right? And so there's kind of
I I look at the power problem as being
kind of multiplefold. The first one is
how can you take the power we have on
the grid and actually make it usable.
And and a lot of that has to do with
flexibility and storage. And so we've
been spending a lot of time looking at
an energy in the energy storage business
and distribution. How can you store
unused capacity, peak demand shave uh
capacity, store it and then distribute
it when it's needed.
>> Um we made an investment in a company
called Taurus. I think I I mentioned to
you which is building like this
distributed utility layer uh almost like
this mesh infrastructure to um takes to
store excess capacity or store capacity
from a variety of of sources and then
distribute it at the time when it's
needed. And so I think that's kind of a
critical layer that that needs to be
built. Um and then longer term there is
a generation problem but I think in the
shorter term it's really it's more on
the distribution and storage. Uh and
then um the other piece I would say is
you know the true bottleneck um at least
in the short term the next 6 to 12
months is is incredibly I don't want to
use the word simplistic but it's things
like uh structural steel it's uh finding
electricians uh that can you know build
>> sorry there's you can't get enough steel
>> you can't get enough steel you can't
>> this is not something I was aware of
like you can't get steel you can't get
uh you can't find enough electricians to
build out you know the power
infrastructure uh substate
transformers, air chillers. These are
like very specific power infrastructure
needed to just get to a point where you
can start to build a powered shell on a
piece of land. And so the bottlenecks in
the short term really are uh people
equipment. Um and then the other
interesting thing is that on the
generation side, what you're seeing is
regulatory obviously is is a big
challenge. And so there's a combination
of bring your own capacity. There's a
lot of that that's that's interesting
right now. And so a site that can
potentially grow to 50 megawatts might
start with only 10 megawatts of grid
interconnect, but can you add solar net
gas um turbins, put these various bring
your own capacity kind of pieces of
technology together to make that site
usable? And so I think a lot of what's
being looked at and a lot of what I'm
looking at right now is really on on the
bring your own capacity at least in the
short term. Yeah, I think um if people
don't know the uh origin story of Crusoe
and Flur gas, like it's actually really
interesting as an example of, you know,
there is actually lots of energy, lots,
you know, some energy out there and, uh
you can make much more of it consumable.
>> Yep. Exactly.
>> Couple topics to hit before we lose you.
Um
>> uh new players, how do you think about
the sovereigns and what they're doing in
their buildouts? Yeah, I think um
>> they seem to be able to fund themselves
just like
>> Exactly. Right. Um you know, you saw the
news from India last week. Uh obviously
a lot of the news in the Middle East,
Southeast Asia.
>> I think you know, we're continuing to
see that sovereigns view compute and AI,
you know, as and and even we do here in
the in the United States as as as a
matter of national security.
>> Um and obviously the funding of those
clusters is is very different than
funding like a private cluster. And so
you've got, you know, government capital
that can be used for that. I So I think
there's two things that, you know, I
find interesting in that space. I think
one is who are the partners um that are
going to build those that capacity
>> and what are the cyber security kind of
implications and environments for that.
And so those those are the two nuances I
think with sovereigns is they need to
find players that can rapidly scale
compute um in the in their countries.
and often times they don't necessarily
have these players that know how to
build and scale GPU comput
and help build you know sovereign
ecosystems around the world and then
there's a matter of cyber security and
how do you make it into a a a truly um
you know safe ecosystem for for those
sovereigns and so I think there's a lot
of work to do still on the cyber side um
especially as you look at you know
scaling sovereign AI
>> what is your thinking on physical AI
it's another you know if it works capex
intensive
Absolutely. And you know, maybe I'll
just take a second to say one of the
things that we observed um from 2010 to
like, you know, the early 2020s was we
were in a very capital asset light mode
of build. Like SAS was, you know, you
never heard Magnetar and SAS, right?
Because it was just purely asset light.
>> Compute and everything we saw starting
in, you know, 2021 is asset heavy.
That's where you started hearing a lot
more about us. And I think physical AI
is actually an extension of that. And so
what you're seeing is part of the reason
I think and I think we all have scars
from the 2010s of hardware companies
that did not make a lot of money for us.
Part of the scars was it was so
difficult to scale hardware companies.
Um you know because the software was so
difficult to build. You needed to spend
so much money building the hardware. The
software was an afterthought. What
you're seeing now is now that you have
more generalpurpose uh software via AI
uh it can make the hardware easier to
scale because you have you know software
that can be you know can interact with
more more hardware and so I think the
natural kind of extension of what we see
is kind of what happened in the compute
markets where you really needed flexible
capital where it wasn't just equity it
was debt and you know a variety of
project finance to really scale capex
you're going to see that same kind of
need uh in physical AI and it simply has
to do with capital intensity right you
know on the compute side for like
cororeweave as an example they needed
billions of capital to scale uh you know
that cloud and I think whether it's a
robotics company or whether it's a you
know uh a manufacturing uh focused
company drones defense all of these
areas are incredibly capital intensive
and then now that you add AI into them I
think it can help them scale faster uh
quite frankly and uh capital intensity
is still there. And so there's a moment
in time now where you're going to have
to really look at optimizing balance
sheets um for physical AI to really grow
and scale.
>> I think to your point of how the um
early AI compute contracts were
structured um
I I went from you know learning to be an
investor in an era and an environment
where robotics was a great way to lose a
lot of money for a long period of time.
you remember that.
>> Um, now I sit on the board of two
robotics companies. So, let's hope it's
not true anymore. But I I'd say like
it's just a question of capability to me
like you know whether it's in the home
or in industrial settings where like it
is simply not a good human job or we
don't have the labor.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, you are going to have if I I think
the products will support investment
grade buyers
>> who are going to have contracts that say
like we want it and you can raise debt
against it.
>> Exactly. Right.
>> Um and so I think actually that that
feels of a very similar um shape. Last
question for you because it is so
timely. What do you make of the general
capital rotation out of out of software
the end of software and it's all it's
all infrastructure labs and AI natives I
guess.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting to see that
every day there's another industry that
kind of tanks whether it's you know you
saw the wealth advisor tank for a few
days you saw the consulting consulting
companies you saw real estate payments
real estate right. I mean I think what
you're seeing at least is at least in my
view what I saw was towards the tail end
of 2025 and into 2026 like there was at
least in my view a big step up in
performance of usable AI and I think you
know what Anthropic was doing really and
claude and like we use it all you
obviously we use all the models but you
know there was a definite step up in
performance in making AI usable and
seeing that it can you know truly
disrupt these you know nonAI native
industries
Uh I think the reaction and rotation out
of each of these names is a bit much
because when you I think there's there's
two factors I look at. One is when you
look at valuations as an example, I
think um from a free cash flow
perspective, SAS companies are are are
valued at at the lowest they've been in
in in years, you know, and there's a
huge margin difference between, you
know, what those rev multiples are today
and what what they've been in the past.
And so free cash flow margins have
steadily increased significantly for SAS
as a whole over the last four or five
years and revenue multiples have stayed,
you know, you know, the same or gone
down.
>> And so to me that's a bit of an
exaggeration because it really has to do
with individual names versus sectors.
And I think that's kind of at least my
take is like in all of these sectors
there are individual names that will
learn how to maximize their, you know,
uh, value using AI and there's those
that won't. Uh but what's happening
right now is there's you know a hammer
being hit across all names and not you
know specific individual names that
might not be using it as well. Um and
then the second point at least you know
my view is there are a number of
applications that you know on paper
sound really interesting like oh AI
could just rebuild Slack or it could
rebuild Salesforce or could rebuild you
know X Y and Z. I think you know the
it's not just the product it's the way
that's integrated across multiple
services and systems across the
enterprise that is a lot more difficult
to just replicate
>> than I think some of the public markets
are are kind of reacting to
>> and I do think there's um you know
fundamental question in addition to what
you said which I agree with of like does
anybody want to rebuild it and own it
and uh you know there are to your point
of like within the software sector in
particular Um there are companies where
uh uh they're structurally more
protected than there are companies that
are at more risk, right? And I I think
it's as simple as like you got to go
select.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Um this has been so fun. Thanks so much,
Neil.
>> Yeah, I really appreciate.
>> Congratulations on all the innovation
and uh on building out all the compute.
>> Awesome. Thank you. Good to be here.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.